# Statistical-Hypothesis-Testinging
An essential part of scientific research is comparing datasets and checking whether they belong to the same group or not. In this repository, I have provided codes for some common statistical tests used for this purpose.
In general statistical hypothesis testing starts with determining the type of underlying distribution: for instance is it a Gaussian distribution or any other? To check if it is a Gaussian distribution there are standard tests such as Anderson Darling test which mainly accounts for differences in the tails of the distribution. There are other tests such as the Shapiro-Wilk test and the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. The last test is based on point inference, hence isn't that reliable. I have provided the code for the Anderson-Darling test for normality.
Once the type of data set is established i.e. whether it is Gaussian or not we proceed with the next tests. I would also like to highlight that we even need to check whether the data is paired or not because the tests depend on the type of data. If the data is Gaussian we proceed with t-test,ANOVA, etc.
I have specifically provided codes for unpaired non-gaussian data. There are three tests which include the Wilcoxon Rank sum test, the Kolmogorov Smirnov test and the Maximum mean discrepancy test which compares two data sets at a time and tells whether they are the statistically same or not(significance level =0.05). The specialty of the code is you can enter any number of datasets in the section which looks as follows:['s1', 's2','s3', 'w1', 'w2', 'w3'] where s1, etc represent the name of the data column to be analyzed as labeled in the excel data file.
In addition, I have also provided tests that compare all the datasets together. They are the Kruskal Wallis test with Bonferroni correction, the Permutational Randomisation test, and Moods' Median test.
Upload the path file in the section provided for the same in the code and run it in google colab.
The output is displayed in colab or can be downloaded as an Excel file.
Hope this helps!
